README.md, before:

# Manifest

Manifest is a Go application that is designed to lint pull requests and diffs
using configurable rules. It is language agnostic, passing the relevant pull
request and diff information to scripts via JSON while using the resulting
stdout JSON to comment on the PR/diffs, fail the build, etc.

## Installing Manifest

Run `go install github.com/blakewilliams/manifest/cmd/manifest` or clone+build from source.

## Usage

The primary usage of `manifest` is via `manifest inspect`, which can be configured directly in the CLI (see `manifest inspect help`) or a configuration file in your root directory called `manifest.config.yaml`:

```yaml
# Sample YAML config
manifest:
  concurrency: 2 # How many inspectors to run at once
  formatter: pretty # The formatter to use
  inspectors: # The inspector scripts to run and report on
    feature_flags:
      command: "script/feature-flag-inspector"
    rails_job_perform:
      command: "script/job-perform-inspector"
```

Then you can run `git diff main | manifest inspect` which will run each of the provided
inspectors in the provided config. Arguments provided in the config can be
overridden using the CLI flags ( see `manifest inspect help`).

## Writing a custom inspector

Manifest inspectors can be written in any language since they effectively accept
JSON as stdin, and output JSON in stdout so `manifest` can output it
appropriately. The following JSON is the expected format:

Stdin:

```json
{
  "pullTitle": "My change that does A, B, C",
  "pullDescription": "A simple description of my changes",
  "repoOwner": "BlakeWilliams",
  "repoName": "manifest",
  "pullNumber": 2,
  "strict": false,
  "diff": {
    "changed": ["app/jobs/greeter_job.rb"],
    "deleted": [],
    "renamed": [],
    "new": [],
    "copied": [],
    "files": {
      "app/jobs/greeter_job.rb": {
        "operation": "change",
        "new_name": "app/jobs/greeter_job.rb",
        "old_name": "app/jobs/greeter_job.rb",
        "left": [
          {
            "lineno": 4,
            "content": "  def perform\n"
          }
        ],
        "right": [
          {
            "lineno": 4,
            "content": "  def perform(name)\n"
          }
        ]
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Stdout:

```json
{
  "failure": "",
  "comments": [
    {
      "file": "app/jobs/greeter_job.rb",
      "line": 4,
      "text": "You have modified an ActiveRecord job's arguments. In order to avoid job failures please read and follow X documentation.",
      "severity": "Warn"
    }
  ]
}
```

Comments are then output to stdout or posted to Pull Requests. The format of comments should be:

```json
{
  "file": "app/jobs/greeter_job.rb", // optional file, missing file+line comments top-level
  "line": 4, // optional line number
  "text": "don't do that because...!", // The text to output
  "severity": "Warn" // The severity of the violation. Can be one of Info, Warn, or Error.
}
```

See also the `Result` struct in `result.go` for more details on the expected output format and the `Import` struct in `manifest.go` for the expected inputs.

### Getting import JSON to test scripts

Since manifest inspectors work primarily through piping stdin and stdout, you'll need to generate the relevant JSON to pass to scripts utilizing `manifest`. To get JSON usable for testing or running manifest inspectors, you can pass `--only-import-json` to bypass running the configured scripts and return only the import JSON that would be passed to the inspectors.

```sh
$ cat my.diff | manifest inspect --json-only
```

Which should result in output like the example in "Writing a manifest inspector". You can then pipe the JSON directly into your inspector script:

```sh
$ cat my.diff | manifest inspect --json-only | my-inspector
```

Commit message:

README update for try manifest

README.md, after:

# Manifest

Manifest is a Go application that is designed to lint pull requests and diffs
using configurable rules. It is language agnostic, passing the relevant pull
request and diff information to scripts via JSON while using the resulting
stdout JSON to comment on the PR/diffs, fail the build, etc.

## Try Manifest
Execute the following command from your repository
`docker run -it -v $(pwd):/app -e MANIFEST_GITHUB_TOKEN=$MANIFEST_GITHUB_TOKEN ghcr.io/jonzudell/manifest/manifest:v0.0.10`
## Installing Manifest

Run `go install github.com/blakewilliams/manifest/cmd/manifest` or clone+build from source.

## Usage

The primary usage of `manifest` is via `manifest inspect`, which can be configured directly in the CLI (see `manifest inspect help`) or a configuration file in your root directory called `manifest.config.yaml`:

```yaml
# Sample YAML config
manifest:
  concurrency: 2 # How many inspectors to run at once
  formatter: pretty # The formatter to use
  inspectors: # The inspector scripts to run and report on
    feature_flags:
      command: "script/feature-flag-inspector"
    rails_job_perform:
      command: "script/job-perform-inspector"
```

Then you can run `git diff main | manifest inspect` which will run each of the provided
inspectors in the provided config. Arguments provided in the config can be
overridden using the CLI flags ( see `manifest inspect help`).

## Writing a custom inspector

Manifest inspectors can be written in any language since they effectively accept
JSON as stdin, and output JSON in stdout so `manifest` can output it
appropriately. The following JSON is the expected format:

Stdin:

```json
{
  "pullTitle": "My change that does A, B, C",
  "pullDescription": "A simple description of my changes",
  "repoOwner": "BlakeWilliams",
  "repoName": "manifest",
  "pullNumber": 2,
  "strict": false,
  "diff": {
    "changed": ["app/jobs/greeter_job.rb"],
    "deleted": [],
    "renamed": [],
    "new": [],
    "copied": [],
    "files": {
      "app/jobs/greeter_job.rb": {
        "operation": "change",
        "new_name": "app/jobs/greeter_job.rb",
        "old_name": "app/jobs/greeter_job.rb",
        "left": [
          {
            "lineno": 4,
            "content": "  def perform\n"
          }
        ],
        "right": [
          {
            "lineno": 4,
            "content": "  def perform(name)\n"
          }
        ]
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Stdout:

```json
{
  "failure": "",
  "comments": [
    {
      "file": "app/jobs/greeter_job.rb",
      "line": 4,
      "text": "You have modified an ActiveRecord job's arguments. In order to avoid job failures please read and follow X documentation.",
      "severity": "Warn"
    }
  ]
}
```

Comments are then output to stdout or posted to Pull Requests. The format of comments should be:

```json
{
  "file": "app/jobs/greeter_job.rb", // optional file, missing file+line comments top-level
  "line": 4, // optional line number
  "text": "don't do that because...!", // The text to output
  "severity": "Warn" // The severity of the violation. Can be one of Info, Warn, or Error.
}
```

See also the `Result` struct in `result.go` for more details on the expected output format and the `Import` struct in `manifest.go` for the expected inputs.

### Getting import JSON to test scripts

Since manifest inspectors work primarily through piping stdin and stdout, you'll need to generate the relevant JSON to pass to scripts utilizing `manifest`. To get JSON usable for testing or running manifest inspectors, you can pass `--only-import-json` to bypass running the configured scripts and return only the import JSON that would be passed to the inspectors.

```sh
$ cat my.diff | manifest inspect --json-only
```

Which should result in output like the example in "Writing a manifest inspector". You can then pipe the JSON directly into your inspector script:

```sh
$ cat my.diff | manifest inspect --json-only | my-inspector
```
